funny things happen when man ignores the
clear revelation of God and creation and
conscience pulls out his microscope and
his telescope and buries his face and a
pile of protons and bacteria yes you can
predict and explain things for herself
rather than having to appeal to the sky
in an impotent and doomed desperation
also whilst I have no idea what a
telescope is I do have an uneasy feeling
that the burying my face in a pile of
bacteria analogy is about to prove that
many people are seeking after the truth
with no respect to the author of this
natural mindset this naturalistic way of
thinking leads some people to look at
people who believe in God people who say
that there's a God and say oh that's
just like believing in leprechauns or
the Flying Spaghetti Monster or you know
Bigfoot well well can you blame them I
mean if the existence of something
doesn't add to the prediction and
explanation of phenomena how is it
supposed to cover the costs of believing
it so this son Flying Spaghetti Monster
thing and leprechaun thing is really
missing the point
altogether it's a bit disingenuous I
mean these things are would be part of
nature these things would be things that
you could see or touch nope because
nature as it is addressed by scientists
is not just the realm of things there
can be boggled or fondles nature
scientists understand it is stuffed full
of unobservable Zanden handleable 'he's
like quarks centers of gravity and more
rarely mental states so your kippered
herring sir it does not distract the
hounds I myself believe maybe you don't
believe and God is
created and revealed himself in such a
way that it's all about faith it's all
about a choice this is not an
intellectual issue it is a moral issue
are you seriously suggesting that we
surrender the justification of belief to
faith intuition and common sense the the
track record of those things as
justification is dreadful deadly in fact
to the point where it becomes a moral
issue when people advocate faith as
public policy furthermore claiming that
belief is a moral choice and thus that a
God will punish you if you don't believe
in him isn't even an argument it's a
threat if you don't agree with that then
I'll just have to come round your house
and put a raccoon in your trashcan
I'm talking about God we're trying to
account for existence itself we're
trying to account for a waxing and
waning measurable contingent universe
we're tact trying to account for
beautifully engineered complex life and
the uniqueness of man above beasts we
really shouldn't have to explain these
things why not and why not in natural
terms well perhaps the issue here is
whether or not answers to questions like
what is there how do we know is it good
could be found in science
well that's very much a live debate in
philosophy but it is a debate in which
many including myself argue that science
based answers can be found and the Durst
there is no real need for an a priori
first philosophy that is both autonomous
front and foundational to science sure
that's a debatable claim but what's
certain is that repeat rhetorical
proclamations of the anti naturalist
case alone set to the drumbeat of
ideological and theological enthusiasm
does nothing to rule out the possibility
but so
may have something to say about
existence truth and value these people
maybe you're one of them hold to a
naturalistic view of the world they're
using methodological naturalism which is
basically a search for truth using an
allowing natural causation only you see
it on the Discovery Channel you see it
in schools make no mistake about it
these people are using methodological
naturalism to find all truth to find
ultimate truth
strictly speaking methodological
naturalism need make no claim to all
logically possible truths the ultimate
truth which is just as well as the idea
of ultimate truth is wildly speculative
and possessed of certain anti
intellectual and authoritarian overtones
I mean why would anyone even want to
admit that there is some true statement
such as its justification will terminate
all interesting or need for further
truth what's more is one were to accept
such a truth such as God exist which I
suspect is what you have in mind the
clear implication is that we should dare
by turn off our minds our curiosity our
critical faculties the message is clear
don't think obey the responses stock go
fuck yourself
well of course there's not gonna be
sufficient evidence for God if all you
got is a telescope and a microscope well
that guy may have had a point anyway
because methodological naturalism need
not claim with absolute certainty that
only natural things exist there's no
contradiction in a methodological
naturalist holding their position
provisionally as a matter of predictive
and explanatory experience it is not
therefore as you suggest simply a
dogmatic denial of the supernatural so
science
and this religion of naturalism take the
place of God and these people that sign
up sign themselves up as people of logic
and reason we really find out that
they're believers just like us
Christians not really no at least not
Christians like you because naturalism
is not blind feederism
naturalism like proper Christianity is
responsive to reason and evidence and
tolerant of doubt in a way that you
fundies with yet
don't fearing further and not in fact
what kind of Christian is it who lacks
faith to the extent that they must
heckle all doubt in others and he's so
without hope as to despair of all who
disagree with them even in the slightest
and is so unsure able as to not even
endeavor to give an honest account of
opposing views so no thank you and
please feel free to piss off and never
darken my youtube searches for
naturalism again bye
you